Virtualized Resources (#2196)
neo4j-contrib/neo4j-apoc-procedures: docs/asciidoc/modules/ROOT/pages/virtual-resource/index.adoc

[[virtual-resource]]
= Virtual Resource

> :description: This chapter describes how to handle external data sources as virtual resource without persisting them in the Database

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:description: This chapter describes how to handle external data sources as virtual resource without persisting them in the database
```

Author: done

[NOTE]
====
There are situations where we would like to enrich/complement the results of a cypher query in a Neo4j graph with additional
data coming from an external source that we can’t (*or don’t want to*) load and persist in the graph.

Think for example in a Neo4j graph with a network topology: All the devices, the connections between them,
the dependencies, etc. You want to query all the devices in a particular site and return the performance metrics for the last two hours.
This is "time-series data" and you may not want to import it and persist it in the graph. apoc.dv gives you the option of
accessing that information on-demand at query time and combining it seamlessly with the network topology data in your graph.
====

The APOC library supports the definition of a catalog of virtual resources. A virtual resource is an external data source that neo4j can use to query and retrieve data on demand presenting it as virtual nodes enriching the data stored in the graph.
The Virtual Resource Catalog feature combines two APOC elements:

> * The xref::import/index.adoc[apoc.load.*] procedures that query data from external sources.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The xref::import/index.adoc[apoc.load.* procedures] that query data from external sources.
```

Author: done

> * The xref::virtual/index.adoc[] procedures that create transient graph structures that can be returned as the result of a query but that are never persisted in the graph.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The xref::virtual/index.adoc[virtual procedures] that create transient graph structures which can be returned as the result of a query but are never persisted in the graph.
```

Author: done

In the current version there is support for relational (RDB) data sources and CSV files.

image::apoc.dv.high-level.png[scaledwidth="100%"]

== Graph and RDB for the following example

This example uses a database stored in Postgres. You can recreate it using https://github.com/morenoh149/postgresDBSamples/blob/master/french-towns-communes-francaises/french-towns-communes-francaises.sql[this script].
It contains just three tables:

image::apoc.dv.rdb-schema-diagram.png[scaledwidth="100%"]

We have imported in Neo4j the regions and departments (script to import is provided as annex) but not the towns,
which we will virtualize and only retrieve from the RDB on-demand.
The graph looks like this (fragment):

image::apoc.dv.imported-graph-from-RDB.png[scaledwidth="100%"]

== Managing a Virtualized Resource via JDBC

=== Creating a Virtualized Resource (JDBC)
Before we can query a Virtualized Resource, we need to define it. We do this using the `apoc.dv.catalog.add` procedure.
The procedure takes two parameters:

> * a name that uniquely identifies the virtualized resource and that we will later use to query it

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* a name that uniquely identifies the virtualized resource and can be used to query that resource
```
